[Captain Picard]
Space...
the final frontier.
These are the voyages
of the Starship Enterprise.
Its continuing mission...
to explore
strange new worlds...
to seek out new life
and new civilizations...
to boldly go
where no one has gone before.
Hi. I'm Jonathan Frakes,
and we're right here at Stage 9
on the Paramount lot
where we're shooting
the two-hour finale
of Star Trek:
The Next Generation.
The red light
usually means stay out
because the cast
and crew are shooting,
don't want to be disturbed.
But guess what?
We're going in anyway
so I can take you
behind the scenes
and show you how
the series is put together.
And I'll show you
some amazing things
you may never
have seen before.
But before we go where very few
have gone before,
let's look back
over the seven years
and see
how far we've come.
To a long and successful voyage.
The new crew of the Enterprise.
[LeVar Burton]
Live long and prosper!
Let's see what's out there.
Engage.
You will now answer
to the charge
of being a grievously
savage race.
Hello, stranger.
Welcome to
the 24th century.
What happens to me
in the other time line?
[Picard]
Resistance is futile.
Red alert.
Full power to shields.
Shields are up.
Can we render
assistance?
Security team
approaching location.
I'm here to help.
Data, I can sense
feelings in you.
Can't you
just fix me?
Raise all shields.
Phasers at ready.
Shields are up.
Fire phasers.
[firing alert]
Open fire.
All weapons.
Fire torpedoes!
Let's make sure
history never forgets...
the name...
Enterprise.
♪♪
[man]
And... action!
Commanding officer,
Enterprise arriving.
[man 1]
Yeah, that's better.
[man 2] It's good.
"Captain Jean-Luc Picard,
stardate 41148..."
Red alert!
All crew to
battle stations!
[man 1]
And... cut.
[man 2] We cut it.
[Frakes]
What you just saw was some
thrilling behind-the-scenes
moments from the dramatic
two-hour finale
of Star Trek:
The Next Generation.
And for the next hour,
I'll be your host as we explore
the world of Star Trek
and discover
how all the creative forces
have made this series
a success story.
Although, in one sense,
this is the end
of a remarkable era,
a new chapter
of this legacy has begun
with the launch of the seventh
Star Trek motion picture
starring all of us
in The Next Generation
and some other
very familiar faces.
But I'll talk
more about that a little later.
Right now, let's go back
to where it all began, 1986,
when Gene Roddenberry
created the second installment
from the final frontier.
[Picard]
Captain's log,
stardate 41153.7.
Our destination
is planet Deneb 4,
beyond which lies
the great unexplored mass
of the galaxy.
I didn't think,
for me personally,
that it would go
much beyond the pilot.
I've said before that
for the first
six weeks
I literally
lived out of a suitcase.
I didn't unpack.
So I was...
I was well prepared
to, uh, you know to be given
the-arm-around-the-shoulder
treatment.
Let's see what this Galaxy-class
starship can do.
Lieutenant,
inform engine room
to prepare for
maximum acceleration.
Hostile is now beginning
to overtake us, sir.
Can you imagine
walking onto a set like this,
with these lights flickering,
and-- and...
these computerized panels
and these hallways and these
sort of futuristic thing?
And whatever we were doing
would then be recorded
as the way it was done.
So it was extraordinary
to sort of
get familiar with this thing
and with each other.
So they had
Gene Roddenberry.
They had
the Star Trek franchise.
And then they did
a very wise thing,
and I don't know
how much of it was design
and how much of it
was fate,
but they happened
to have ended up
with an amazing group
of people,
both in front of
and behind the camera.
Ready for
departure, sir.
[console beeping]
Some problem,
Riker?
Just hoping
this isn't
the usual way
our missions
will go, sir.
Oh, no, Number One.
I'm sure most will be
much more interesting.
[Frakes]
From the very beginning,
there has been one man
who has had a fresh perspective
on the growth
and development
of each of our characters--
Executive Producer
Rick Berman.
Writers do not create
characters alone.
They create them and hand them
over to actors,
and then together they develop
these characters.
And the characters in
their interrelationships
with one another
continue to develop
for the entire length
of the series.
That's one of
the fun things to see.
Bridge to transporter room.
Energize!
[man]
Aye, sir.
Fire torpedoes.
[firing alert]
[Rick]
Captain Picard was a very strong
commanding officer
when we first met him,
and he is when we are going
to leave him at the end
of the series.
He has grown in the sense that
he has developed very very
intimate relationships
with a number of people
who are his fellow
crew members
on the Enterprise.
Now that we know
how...
each of us feels,
perhaps we should not
be afraid to explore
those feelings.
Well, Beverly Crusher
went through her periods
of motherhood,
uh, uh...
rearing Wesley
for a number of years,
and then
having him leave.
Beverly has become
an integral part
of a family of seven
very close characters,
which she wasn't
when we started.
When we found you,
you were dying.
I saved your life.
Why?
It's my duty to help
those who are hurt.
I think Riker
has grown a lot.
He grew a beard,
and, uh...
I think he's become
a more relaxed,
more lovable character
than he was when we began.
Data, when it really
works between two people,
it's not like anything
you've ever experienced.
The rewards
are far greater
than simple friendship.
How far, sir?
That's what
I'm hoping you're
going to find out.
Data was extremely android-like
when we first met him.
He was first tinkering
with exploring
the human condition
and wanting
to become more human
and all the
Pinocchio analogies
that were thrown out
in the first couple of years.
I am not
your puppet anymore.
[Brent Spiner]
Basically,
from the very beginning,
Gene Roddenberry's notion
about the character
was that he would begin sort of
as the blanc tableau,
you know, and, uh,
and really
kind of mechanical
and not particularly
human,
and through osmosis
and being around human beings
for the years,
that by the end
of his journey
he would be as close
to being human as possible
and still not.
What were you
just thinking?
In that particular
moment,
I was reconfiguring
the warp field
parameters,
analyzing
the collected works
of Charles Dickens,
calculating
the maximum pressure
I could safely apply
to your lips,
considering a new
food supplement
for Spot...
I'm glad I was
in there somewhere.
Romantically,
Counselor Troi
has had her
ups and downs.
She's had a few emotional flings
here and there.
In the first season,
we realized about midway through
that she looked kind of like
some kind of intergalactic
cheerleader.
She had a bizarre hairdo,
and we've changed her look
a number of times
to take advantage of what
a pretty lady Marina is.
This isn't just
some experiment
you're running, Data.
Jenna is a living,
breathing person
with needs and feelings
that have to be considered.
My programming
may be inadequate
to the task.
We're all more
than the sum
of our parts, Data.
You'll have to be
more than the sum
of your programming.
Geordi was I think the youngest,
or if not the youngest,
one of the youngest
of our characters
when we first began.
I guess the second
or third season
when Geordi
left the bridge
and basically
came down here
to take over
in engineering,
it gave the character
a whole new life.
Coolant leak.
Bridge, we've got a coolant
leak in the engine's core.
I can't shut it down.
I estimate two minutes
to a warp core breach.
[electrical discharge]
Get out! Go!
Go, go, go, go!
Shields inoperative.
I suggest we use
the tractor beam
to alter
the other ship's
trajectory.
Mr. Worf, make it so.
Engaging tractor beam.
The character Worf
has changed over
the last seven years
by virtue of the fact that
I've always added
something different
to him every year.
He had to come to
terms with the fact
that even though
he's always said
he needs
a Klingon woman...
[speaking Klingon]
Don't give me that
Klingon nonsense!
He has basically
fallen for,
in this last episode
that we're doing,
umm Deanna Troi.
Worf, I think
it's all right
to concentrate
on our feelings,
yours and mine.
[Picard]
Counselor.
What's today's date?
The date.
[Worf]
Stardate 47988.
47988.
Captain,
what's wrong?
47988.
The final episode
has the captain
moving backwards
and forwards in time
and continuing to
encounter his colleagues
in those time periods.
We go seven years back.
In fact, we actually
go back to a point
just before
the series began.
We see scenes
that you might have
seen in the pilot,
had they been written.
Well, then, if I may
be so bold, sir,
you're in
for a treat.
The Enterprise
is quite a ship.
I'm sure she is.
And there she is.
♪♪
[Frakes]
Coming up, the award-winning
production team reveals
special designs created
for the two-hour season finale,
plus I'll uncover
a few enterprising secrets
when we return.
Ever since the very beginning
of the show,
the bridge of the Enterprise
has often been
the center of action
for many of
the crew's missions,
and that includes
our season finale.
This is where
the captain or myself
might look out into space
and see a Romulan warbird
decloaking
or some amazing
space anomaly
out there somewhere.
But if you ever wondered
what it really looks like,
well, it's quite different than
what you see on television.
♪♪
Now when the large viewscreen
is needed for a scene
with actors standing
in front of it,
our crew moves in
a large set piece
and lowers a huge
blue curtain
which sinks
into the floor.
Then whatever my character
is reacting to--
be it a ship
or spatial anomaly--
is optically edited
into the show at a later date.
Damage report.
Casualty reports are coming
in from all over the ship.
Starboard nacelle sustained
a direct impact.
We are venting
drive plasma.
Initiating emergency
core shutdown.
Inertial dampers
failing.
We're losing
attitude control.
This is the bridge.
All hands to
emergency escape pods!
Did you ever wonder
how we accomplish
that violent rocking motion,
as if we were just struck
by a photon torpedo blast?
Well, sometimes it can be
a two-step process.
One, the camera
filming the scene
can shake
back and forth.
And two, the actors
are choreographed
to lurch in unison.
After seven years,
we've got it down
to a science.
[explosions]
All hands abandon ship!
Repeat.
All hands abandon--
When great sailing ships
are launched,
you'll often see
a gold plaque like this one.
They include the names
of the crew,
the engineers, the designers
who built the vessel.
On the Enterprise, you'll find
a very special list of names.
"Admiral Gene Roddenberry.
Admiral Michael Piller.
Admiral Rick Berman."
and the newly rephrased,
politically correct motto--
"To boldly go where
no one has gone before."
One of the other people
on this plaque
is Richard James
who was responsible
for creating the
24th century look
you see each week
on The Next Generation.
The production designer
is responsible,
basically,
for the look of the show.
So it would incorporate
all the elements
that are physical,
as well as
the matte shots
and the designing
of sets.
[Frakes]
And that includes
a wide range
of architectural styles.
I must say,
this is a fine place
you have here.
[Frakes]
From Data's gothic manor
built for
the final episode,
to the intricately
detailed interiors
of the Borg ship,
to the Egyptian-style
Klingon hall
for which Richard James
earned an Emmy Award.
Over the years,
you may have noticed scenes
like Data hurling
his brother Lore
clear across
the cargo bay,
Worf battling a fierce
alien opponent on the holodeck,
Picard leaping out of the way
of deadly phaser fire,
or a tremendous
lightning bolt
blasting Counselor Troi
backwards.
These kinds of action scenes
are essential ingredients
in adventure shows
like Star Trek,
and they often require
skilled stuntmen.
[grunting]
[glass shattering]
But once in a while,
an actor boldly performs
their own stunts--
sometimes
with mixed results.
[Marina]
The stunt is
that the wind blows
and a storm comes in
and we get
blown over.
[Data]
Lunchtime, Miles.
Let's do it!
I flung myself back
onto my coccyx,
which I heard crack,
virtually,
and, um...
it was a print.
I was immobile
on the floor, of course.
Couldn't walk
for three weeks.
And when I did
finally see
the episode,
I was this big
on the screen.
It could have been Worf
in Troi's costume,
and we wouldn't
have known the difference.
So I learned
my lesson.
[grunting]
♪♪
I'll never forget
an episode from
the first season,
Skin of Evil.
Riker was sucked
into a pit of black slime.
So I asked the powers that be,
what is this stuff?
They said, don't worry,
it's fine.
It's Metamucil
and black printer's ink.
Naturally, I dove in.
In the pit was an elevator
which forced me up
through the scum
and then vomited me
onto the beach
covered with Metamucil
and black printer's ink.
When the scene was over,
LeVar Burton as Geordi
walked over, leaned down,
looked at me and said,
"Frakes, I never
would have done that."
♪♪
Don't move.
[scanner beeping,
Riker moaning]
[Picard]
Is he all right?
All signs
show normal.
Each year Star Trek's
production offices
are inundated with a galaxy
of potential stories
for our characters.
Only a small number
of these stories
ever make it
to the screen.
And an even fewer number
of writers
are asked to join
the writing staff.
One of the most talented
screenwriters
to join our staff
in recent years
is now
an executive producer
on The Next Generation...
one of my favorites,
Jeri Taylor.
I think I was
hired on this show
because of my ability to tap
into the human condition
and to dramatize stories
about people's
inner feelings.
Zarek.
We're a part
of each other.
I know that he
has caused you pain,
but I also know...
that you love him.
♪♪
Peace and long life.
I think that
the team of writers
headed by Jeri Taylor
have certainly
made an effort
to make the women's
roles stronger.
We've been in positions
of power more often,
in the captain's chair
or leading a mission
somewhere.
Helm, get us out of here.
[woman]
Aye, sir.
We've lost warp engines.
Evasive maneuvers.
Full impulse.
♪♪
We're not willing to do a story
that could be done
on any other show on television.
It has to be unique,
it has to have some kind
of oblique angle.
It has to turn
an issue on its ear.
We want to come out
with a fresh approach
so that when people
see Star Trek,
they see
something unusual,
something they can't
get anyplace else.
I need you to remain
linked to the others
so that their strength
and their confidence
can help you.
I need you, Goval.
I need you to help me
build a future for the Borg.
I can't do it
without you.
The idea of cults
of controlling personalities
that are charismatic,
who have the power
to get great numbers
of people in their sway,
seems a very
important idea,
and we wanted
to dramatize that,
and I think we did that
with some success.
I need to know
I can count on you.
As proof, I want you
to kill Picard.
No.
That would be wrong.
It was terrific
dealing with Jeri.
You know it's all about that.
It really is
it's about, um...
you've heard it before.
If it ain't on the page,
it ain't on the stage,
and there's nothing
truer than that.
[Frakes]
Coming up,
the universe of Star Trek
from Spock
to Deep Space,
plus some new
Starfleet creations
for the final episode
that will appear
25 years into the future.
This is engineering,
the equivalent of an engine
room on a large battleship,
and behind me is where
those ever-popular
dilithium crystals
fuel the warp drive engines,
sort of like coal
being shoveled
into a furnace.
And whenever there's a crisis,
this is where
you'll find Geordi
scrambling
to save the Enterprise.
Antimatter
containment fields
are failing!
If I can't
stabilize them,
I'll have to dump
the reactor core or she'll blow.
If we are going to maintain
our realignment progressions,
we shouldn't be pushing warp 8
for at least an hour.
We're bringing
a Borg survivor on board.
We'll need to neutralize
the homing signal
to prevent him from
sending or receiving
transmissions of any kind.
I'll set up a subspace
damping field
around the
detention cell.
Very well.
In the last scene, you may have
heard Geordi spouting
a lot of what is
fondly referred to
as techno-babble.
When a story
is first written,
there are often sections
of dialogue left blank
with just the word
"tech" inserted.
In these cases,
the producers
of The Next Generation
turn to a few special
consultants for help.
My job is to
look over the script,
see if the writers
have called for
any new hand props,
any new spacecraft
designs,
and also check for
any technical flags
that the writers
may have put in
looking for scientific
or technical terms.
Any of this, any of
the real-world science
we can then adapt
to what we do
in our props,
in the sets.
We like to think
of ourselves as backups
in particular
scientific areas.
I'm implanting nanocortical
fibers in your cerebrum.
They are designed
to learn and mimic
your neural firing patterns.
One of the questions I've been
asked time and time again
is where in the heck
is the bathroom
on the Enterprise?
Well, there's only one.
And if you look very closely,
you'll see it's located
right here.
This elaborate
cross-section
of the Enterprise
showing every deck,
every room,
is one of the many
detailed graphics
which allow Geordi
and the crew
to check various
ship activities.
Suppose I punch
a few buttons over here?
Suddenly a schematic
computer display pops on
depicting a few
futuristic abnormalities.
[console beeping]
The people responsible
for creating
these high-tech designs
have written volumes
of material on Star Trek.
They're some of the most valued
members of the production staff
because if they don't
already know
all there is to know
about Star Trek,
they're usually asked
to invent it.
What Wendy's working on here
is a backlit graphic
which is going to be
on Beverly Crusher's ship.
When she's done,
this is going to be adhered
to a piece of Plexiglas,
or behind a piece of Plexiglas,
which will give the illusion
that this is a very high-tech,
computer-generated
touchscreen.
This is the dedication plaque
for the Starship Pasteur,
which is, um,
which is Beverly Crusher's ship.
Down at the very bottom
of the plaque,
where on the Enterprise it says,
"to boldly go where
no one has gone before,"
it has here a quote
from the Hippocratic Oath
which physicians take
when they become doctors.
Walking around
these elaborate sets,
I've discovered
some interesting
Star Trek
historical information.
For instance,
when the production team
for Next Generation
was building their sets,
they were able
to incorporate
some important parts
from the original series.
These lights in the ceiling of
our transporter pad
were actually
the lights in the floor
from the original
transporter pad.
Flip the camera.
I'll show you what I mean.
Ever wonder if that's
a real star field
outside those windows?
Actually, it's a very large,
beautifully designed drape
hung from the rafters,
adorned with lots
of twinkling sequins.
They also use
a large cylinder
covered with black velvet
which turns slowly
as they film the scene.
Throughout the long history
of Star Trek,
Gene Roddenberry's
vision of the future
has expanded to
the outer reaches
of the final frontier.
Every mission opens the door
to new worlds.
Plus new races of aliens
may be introduced
alongside numerous
Federation members
that have existed
since the original series
first aired
in the mid sixties.
We thought
it might be interesting
to take a look at
the world of Star Trek
and all the alien cultures
we've met
in the last seven years.
♪♪
Do not move.
What?
No!
Whooaah!
Long live
the Klingon empire.
Can't somebody
get me a napkin?
Get off my ship.
I do so only because
it suits me to leave.
But I will not promise
never to appear again.
[Frakes] Making
a special appearance
for the series' finale
is perhaps the Federation's
greatest villain
and the first alien
threat to appear on
The Next Generation--
the evil Q.
The character of Q
has changed...
in the last
seven years.
He was first
brought on
as kind of
an omnipotent,
somewhat
humorless being.
And, um,
and he's changed.
If anything,
he's become more
human in a way.
Smells awful,
doesn't it,
all that sulfur
and volcanic ash?
I really must
speak to the maid.
I think John De Lancie's
a fabulous actor
who created a character
from day one
that was very memorable,
and we have,
as a result, tried...
to bring that character
back as often as we could
in a way that was believable
both on
The Next Generation
and on Deep Space Nine.
I don't belong here, sir.
I'm-- I'm--
supposed to be dead.
We've always
tried to find
reasons to bring
Denise back into the fold
because she's always
managed to remain
a part of the family
even though she hasn't
been around.
You're not part
of my crew.
I am now.
Captain Picard
approved my request
for transfer.
But I don't
want you here.
You need me here.
Show me someone
in your crew who can
do the job better than I can.
I did
Yesterday's Enterprise,
which was a show in which I came
back in the third season
because there was
a rip in time and space
and a ship from the past
came into the present.
So I started playing
with this idea,
and I sort of thought,
"what if Tasha had a child
"that now would be
about the age of her mother
"when Lieutenant Yar
was killed
but was raised
by Romulans?"
Excuse me. I'm just
finishing up a speech...
for you, Mr. Spock.
I rather enjoy writing.
I don't get to
do it very often in this job.
Perhaps you
would be happier
in another job.
[Frakes]
During the fifth season
of our series,
one of the most
historic events
in Star Trek's
legacy occurred
when the legendary
Ambassador Spock
from the original
Star Trek series guest starred
with the crew from
The Next Generation.
You may know Zarek
better than
his own son does.
My father and I...
never chose to meld.
I offer you the chance
to touch...
what he shared with me.
♪♪
[Frakes]
As a result, Unification became
one of the highest rated
episodes in our
seven-year history.
In addition, two other
beloved crew members
from the original series
have made appearances
on our show.
Welcome aboard the Enterprise,
Captain Scott.
Thank you, sir.
And call me Scotty.
Well, this is
a new ship.
But she's got
the right name.
Now, you remember
that, you hear?
I will, sir.
You treat her
like a lady...
and she'll always
bring you home.
[Frakes]
When the producers decided
to launch another
Star Trek series
entitled Deep Space Nine,
a few characters
who first appeared
in The Next Generation
were asked
to come aboard.
What is
present course?
It's what it's been
all along, sir.
Direct heading
to Farpoint Station.
Confirmed.
We are on
that heading, sir.
You know anything about
Farpoint Station, sir?
Sounds like
a fairly dull place.
We've heard
that we may find it
rather interesting.
Yeah, I was transporter chief
on the Enterprise.
And now I'm what's known
as the chief operations officer.
Basically, my role here
is I'm kind of
like the chief engineer
of the whole...
the station.
So, uh...
tell me about
the Paradas.
They're going to
be here when, tomorrow?
Why do you want to know anything
about the Paradas?
It's always good
business to know
about new customers
before they
walk in your door.
Oh, and which rule
of acquisition is that?
At the very beginning of
Star Trek: The Next Generation,
in the very first season,
I was one of
the original four Ferengi,
and in the episode,
I had perhaps
the most to say.
And I sort of put my feet
in the wet cement
of that race of people.
You work
with your females,
arm them,
and force them
to wear clothing!
Sickening!
[Frakes]
Next, a special guest
leads The Next Generation
orchestra,
more behind the scenes
from the final episode,
and watch what happens
when I make a surprise visit
to a Star Trek convention.
[Frakes]
Fans have been coming
to Star Trek conventions
for years.
And Pasadena recently hosted
one of the largest of its kind
ever assembled.
These events allow everyone
to celebrate their
favorite show with friends,
buy collectible items,
and see many of their
favorite stars in person.
Like me.
Look what happens
when I pay an unannounced
visit to an event
already in progress.
[cheering and applause]
Hi, Jonathan.
Hi, everybody!
I wasn't invited,
but I came anyway!
Aah!
[Frakes] Obviously the fans
in attendance didn't
expect to see me,
but I had a great time
touring the many displays
and booths.
This is
the dealers' room.
Let's see what they've got.
Oh, action figures!
They've got it all here.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Michael Dorn.
His phaser
is always on stun.
You can't get enough
Patrick Stewart memorabilia.
I've always said that.
This would be me?
And this would be
Old Baldy?
Yeah, Old Baldy,
that's it.
And my lovely Enzotti?
You better
believe it.
See what you can find
at these conventions.
Educational and fun.
Bye-bye!
[crowd]
Bye!
Oh, boy.
I've never seen
so many Trekkers in my life.
Hi. Could I have
your autograph?
Sure.
What's your name?
Who should I
make it out to?
"To your greatest fan
Brittany. Love,
William Shatner."
"To your greatest fan
Brittany.
"Love..."
"William Shatner."
Very nice.
You know,
my name is really
Patrick Stewart.
It's very nice
to meet you.
Thank you.
In the last seven years,
the producers have faced
many challenges,
including the
often difficult task
of transforming
outdoor locations
from the 20th century
into extraordinary planets
and worlds
from the 24th century.
For this scene
in the final episode,
the producers had to
find a way
to re-create Captain Picard's
vineyard at his home
in 24th century France.
To find out
how this was done,
we came here to Temecula,
California, in the
Callaway Vineyards.
And I had a chance to talk
to our director Winrich Kolbe
and the director
of photography Jonathan West.
Well, anytime you're outside
on location,
you lose
one basic ingredient--
and that's the control
of your environment.
You're at the mercy
of the weather, time of day.
As much as I'd like to believe
so, I can't stop the sun.
So when it goes down,
that's it. We go home.
I want those mountains
clearer...
Okay, I'll order
that for you.
Thank you.
[Kolbe] This scene
is pretty well
in the beginning
of the episode,
or of the particular story
this is the future.
Picard has retired,
has become an ambassador,
and is now retired
on his vineyard
and is being visited
by Geordi.
And...
action, please.
Captain, we've got
a problem with a warped core
or the phase inducers...
[laughs]
or some other damn thing.
Geordi.
[sighs]
Hello, Captain.
Or should I call you
ambassador?
Oh, I haven't
been called that
for some time either.
How about Mr. Picard?
How about Jean-Luc?
[Kolbe]
And cut.
[man]
Cut!
Very nice.
[crew murmur]
Whenever we don't
have the luxury
of shooting outdoors,
there's Stage 16
on the Paramount lot,
dedicated to exploring
strange new worlds.
The cast
and production crew
have nicknamed this place
"Planet Hell."
Between the lights
and the dirt
and the smoke
and the fog,
it gets hot as... well,
come on.
We've managed
to transform Planet Hell
into such diverse locales
as an icy planet
for the episode
I, Borg,
a dark Romulan cavern
for the epic meeting
between Ambassador Spock
and Captain Picard
in Unification,
and a high precipice
which I stood on in
The Last Outpost.
Right next to Stage 16
is the Paramount scoring stage.
We're here
for the audition.
[man]
Yo!
[Frakes]
Where a full orchestra,
led by Dennis McCarthy,
is required to arrange
brand-new compositions
for every episode of Star Trek:
The Next Generation.
As a special treat,
Marina Sirtis was invited
to lead the musicians
as guest conductor
for this session.
Okay,
is everybody ready?
[man]
Here we go.
[McCarthy]
The heat is on.
[orchestra plays]
[Frakes] As she waves
her baton,
she listens to the music mix
in her headphones
as a TV monitor
displays the scene that is
being scored.
Bravo!
Okay, take 10,
girls and boys.
[laughter and applause]
Yo! All right!
[Frakes]
Imagine you're a Klingon.
You've just been
in a brawl with a Borg
and he's ripped
a big hole in your uniform.
Where the heck in the 24th
century are you going to find
new threads?
Have no fear.
Because for the last few years,
one man has been in charge of
dressing up the entire
Star Trek universe.
Bob Blackman.
So I receive
a script for
All Good Things,
a two-hour
movie of the week,
essentially.
Um, I read it,
I do a breakdown
of it.
Um, in it, it says,
for instance,
people appear
in the future in uniform.
I did some drawings,
I took them to Rick,
he agreed with me
on my approach,
and I come back here.
We then had
some fit models come in
and we tried them on to see how
they would work.
They seemed to work.
And we went into production
to make the 25
that we had to make.
You wouldn't believe
how much you age
in seven years
on a TV series.
I was a young man
when I started.
How things have changed.
Actually, I'm in makeup,
believe me,
for a scene that takes place
25 years in the future.
And the man
responsible for this makeup
and for most of the alien
makeups you see on the show,
the king-- Michael Westmore.
Jonathan, could you
look up at me just for a second?
I'm needed on the set.
I'll talk to you
in a few minutes.
I think our most
memorable character
over the years
for me makeup-wise
was from a show
called The Offspring,
where Data had...
had an-- an alien android
who selected a human female--
to become a human female.
We cut off every sense and
function that the man had,
and it took four hours
to put him into it.
He would work 12-13 hours
for the day.
And it took 2-3 hours
to clean him up at night.
And I literally had a makeup
artist get in the shower
and scrub with him.
They're going to start
putting the makeup on
in about 10 minutes.
This is just the prep.
He created
this fantastic makeup
for Dr. Soong.
And it was such a good makeup.
Cause I didn't know how
I was going to play this part.
The man was about 100
and I had never played
a character that old before
and I had no idea how to do it.
And, uh, couldn't find
the character until I got
into the makeup
and I looked at myself
in the mirror
and I knew who the guy was.
So I really think
Westmore's makeup job
was 3/4 of that performance.
You found your long-lost
father, and he's alive.
It is really you.
[grunts]
[Frakes]
Coming up,
a special look ahead
at the future
of Star Trek,
including
an exclusive preview
of our dramatic
two-hour finale
and the upcoming
feature film.
Well, so far we've shown you
a significant portion
of Star Trek's universe,
but in some respects,
we've only scratched
the surface
of this enormous
phenomenon.
As we end one chapter
of The Next Generation,
the Emmy award-winning
series Star Trek:
Deep Space Nine
continues to warp speed
into bold new territory
with each new episode
from the 24th century.
We felt it had to be
a distinctly different format
than The Next Generation
and of course, the original
Star Trek series.
We decided that we would pick
a space station to put it on
and to put
this space station
on the edge
of a new frontier.
Computer, new heading.
1-8-0-mark-3-1.
To the wormhole.
In addition, our cast
is joining forces
with members of
the original series' cast,
including Captain Kirk himself,
William Shatner,
in the seventh installment
from the Star Trek film legacy.
As far as
the story line goes,
all I can tell you--
full of drama, adventure,
life, death, Klingons...
Red alert!
Everything you'd come to expect
from both of Starfleet's
heroic legends.
I'm very hopeful that
it will be the best
of all the Star Trek
features.
And that's saying quite a lot,
'cause we've done
some really fine
features at Paramount.
We have a solar observatory,
which is a very interesting
new element
in Star Trek lore.
Stellar cartography
is a new set.
It's on the Enterprise-D
commanded by
Jean-Luc Picard
for the last seven seasons.
It's the most important set,
I think, in the feature,
because it's where you learn
everything you
need to know
about the end of the story.
[man]
Mark.
Captain Kirk.
Yeah.
I'd be honored if you would give
the order to get underway.
Take us out.
[applause]
[Stewart]
I think they're going to see
a terrific story,
and most
importantly because--
I've always argued this
from the very beginning--
It is going to combine
certain members of the original
crew with our crew.
And I always felt that any
feature film that we made
any first feature film
should be in the form
of a transitional film.
And this is,
and it's been done
very excitingly.
But that's not all.
Production is already underway
for a third television
series from the 24th century
entitled Star Trek Voyager.
Producers Rick Berman,
Mike Piller,
and Jeri Taylor and the rest of
the production crew
are busily making
preparations for this
new television series
set to premiere
January 1995.
We're all very excited
about the prospects
for the new series,
Star Trek Voyager.
Um...
for me, any chance
to come up with
a new spacecraft,
you know, even if it is
steeped in
Starfleet style
and Starfleet colors,
you know, we still
have a chance
to design something
new and interesting.
[man]
Speed.
And... action.
[Frakes] Well, since
"All Good Things"
must come to an end,
I think it would be appropriate
to end our program
with a special segment
on our very last adventure.
Will, I know why
it's happening.
I know what's
causing the anomaly.
We have to go back.
So the show deals with
Picard finding himself
helplessly being tossed
within three time frames--
the present,
the past,
and then also in the future.
This is not
my time.
I don't belong here.
What?
How would Gene
have reacted
to the ending of this?
I think, I have a feeling
with a lot of emotion.
Gene was a surprisingly
emotional man,
given that he was
so imposing and quite
intimidating as a person.
[Frakes]
But very gentle.
Very sensitive.
Center to him.
And, uh...
I had the feeling, and...
I somehow suspect
that he didn't...
this is different
from how it was with
the original cast,
with Bill and Leonard,
and the others
but I may be wrong,
and they may be offended
by what I'm going to say.
But my instinct
was that Gene
had a relationship
with all of us,
which despite
my great age
and your
moderate age,
was um, was close to
a relationship
of a father
to his children.
I felt that we were
part of a brood.
So I'm sure he would be
very emotional about
the end of today.
I know that
you are the finest crew
in the fleet...
and I would trust my life
with each one of you.
[Frakes] To bring the saga
of The Next Generation
full circle,
the producers felt
it was very fitting to bring
back the character of Q,
who was there
from the very beginning.
Well, this time
I'm not your enemy.
I'm not the one that causes
the annihilation of mankind...
you are.
Commander, assemble
the senior staff
and go to red alert.
We have
a bigger problem
than I thought.
Red alert!
We're going to need a ship.
He's Jean-Luc Picard,
and if he wants to go
on one more mission,
that's what
we're going to do.
Engage.
May whatever god
you believe in...
Two Klingon attack
cruisers decloaking.
...have mercy
on your soul.
Another ship
is decloaking.
It's the Enterprise.
Lay in a course
for the center
of the anomaly.
We can't stay,
Captain.
We have to.
Everything depends on it!
We have to save humanity!
Initiating static
warp shell now.
Good-bye, Jean-Luc.
I'm going to miss you.
We must eject the core.
No!
You had such potential.
I can't stop it.
It's going to--
But then again,
all good things
must come to an end.
Looking back
over the seven years,
I can't help but recall
our very first season,
when we were still
finding our footing
in the final frontier.
The great bird
of the galaxy,
Gene Roddenberry,
took me under his wing
early on.
I would often go up
to his office,
he would coach me
on my character,
we'd share a few laughs,
and he'd talk to me
about his remarkable
vision of the future.
One day he told me this--
in the 24th century,
there will be no hunger
and there will be no greed.
And he believed it,
and he made me believe it.
And to this day, it's one
of many philosophies
that have stirred
our imagination
and kept this legend alive
for over 25 years.
Thank you, Gene,
for creating
an extraordinary world
we'd all like to live in...
and a wondrous future
to which we all can aspire.
♪♪